[21:23] <asparagi> howdy!
[21:26] <ar4chne> heyaz!
[21:26] <ar4chne> I need to head over to pauls
[21:26] <ar4chne> but I just realized I don't quite know exactly where that is
[21:26] <ar4chne> or even if he's home ;D
[21:26] <asparagi> hmm
[21:27] <asparagi> step 1 would probably be determining whether he's home.  have you called his cell?
[21:27] <Dymaxion> hey
[21:27] Action: Dymaxion just got in
[21:27] <asparagi> ha ha!
[21:27] <asparagi> are you at home?
[21:27] <Dymaxion> 403 e thomas st #1
[21:27] <Dymaxion> yes
[21:28] <asparagi> that's probably really close to where you described you are, ara
[21:28] <Dymaxion> it's the greyish cement building across from the park with the reddish awning
[21:28] <Dymaxion> btw, I haven't had dinner yet -- ara, have you?
[21:28] Action: asparagi imagines a park with a reddish awning ;)
[21:29] <Dymaxion> Hehe
[21:29] <asparagi> there's like some steps up from the street across from the park
[21:29] <Dymaxion> yeah
[21:31] <Dymaxion> arachne: if you haven't eaten, alex is offering to fetch an order from jai thai, if thai food sounds interestnig.
[21:31] <asparagi> we made a plan for what to do tonight; anybuggy remember which logs it'd be in?
[21:32] <Dymaxion> hrm.
[21:32] <Dymaxion> I think I might have emailed something out
[21:32] Action: Dymaxion notes that e still doesn't have a laptop, annoyingly.
[21:32] <asparagi> damn
[21:32] <ar4chne> yeah, just got back form dinner
[21:32] <Dymaxion> ah, ok
[21:32] <asparagi> hence the meeting at your house
[21:32] <Dymaxion> we'll figure our own food out
[21:32] <ar4chne> and no :) I can't eat thai food
[21:33] <ar4chne> I think I'm allergic to something in it
[21:33] <Dymaxion> suck!
[21:33] <asparagi> how sad :(
[21:33] <ar4chne> but thanks for the offer!
[21:33] <Dymaxion> hrm, yeah -- I should figure out how to get a second chair back here.
[21:33] Action: asparagi is eating pastrami from the local sub shop
[21:34] <asparagi> i think it's really funny that the only decent restaurant i've found here is a hole-in-the-wall takeout sub shop
[21:35] <Dymaxion> hehe
[21:35] <ar4chne> ok, I'm heading out in 3 minutes
[21:35] <Dymaxion> ok
[21:37] <asparagi> look, you did send out the meeting plans.  :)
[21:38] <asparagi> so, ara proposed earlier that she work on the OS X package while we work on docs
[21:38] <asparagi> and, i have to go at like 9.
[21:38] <asparagi> blame toby. :)
[21:39] <Dymaxion> whee
[21:39] Action: Dymaxion blames toby. :-)
[21:40] <asparagi> so, i could take a stab at the ui quirks
[21:40] <asparagi> did you write any docs already?
[21:40] <Dymaxion> no, I've been really swamped
[21:40] <asparagi> the whole new job thing is always fun
[21:40] <Dymaxion> yeah
[21:41] <Dymaxion> do we want the phone?
[21:41] <asparagi> hmm
[21:41] <asparagi> not especially, on my end anyway
[21:42] <Dymaxion> ok
[21:44] <asparagi> so, i think we should make it really easy for people to write attack stubs
[21:45] <asparagi> possibly even an XML format
[21:45] <asparagi> although that would be dangerous
[21:46] <Dymaxion> hrm
[21:46] <Dymaxion> back
[21:46] <Dymaxion> with a stef
[21:46] <asparagi> oh, look, a steph!
[21:47] <asparagi> did you get the right one?
[21:47] <Dymaxion> I think so
[21:47] <asparagi> i mean, we wouldn't want just any steph.
[21:47] Action: Dymaxion grins
[21:48] <Dymaxion> so, right, attack stubs
[21:48] <Dymaxion> I definitely support making them easier to mess with
[21:49] <asparagi> it's kind of off-topic, maybe we should write docs for this release..
[21:49] <Dymaxion> yeah
[21:49] <Dymaxion> docs first, everything else later.
[21:49] <ar4chne> baq!
[21:49] <asparagi> heya!
[21:49] <Dymaxion> I'd talked about a feature triage for our next meeting, so that seems like a good topic for then.
[21:49] <asparagi> sure
[21:50] Action: Dymaxion . o O ( queeboard? )
[21:50] Action: asparagi laughs
[21:51] <asparagi> ok, here's my draft topics for the UI quirks docs:
[21:51] <asparagi> Trike's UI Philosophy
[21:51] <asparagi> "Normal" for a Squeak UI
[21:51] <asparagi> Less-than-Obvious Trike UI Tricks
[21:51] <asparagi> Known Bugs
[21:51] <asparagi> Features We Know We Need to Add
[21:52] <Dymaxion> We should have an Unknown Bugs section too.
[21:52] <ar4chne> How to Build
[21:52] <ar4chne> a bit better than the thing put out for build 
[21:52] <ar4chne> 5
[21:52] <Dymaxion> Actually, what we should have is a "What happens when the debugger comes"
[21:52] <asparagi> um, Unknown Bugs?
[21:52] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[21:52] <asparagi> ah
[21:53] <Dymaxion> (that first one was a joke, although if you can write it, we should definitely include it)
[21:55] <Dymaxion> That sounds like a good outline
[21:55] <asparagi> hey, is the versioning scheme up on octotrike somewhere?
[21:55] <asparagi> i can't find it
[21:56] <ar4chne> yes, it is
[21:56] <ar4chne> but it was really obscurely linked
[21:56] <ar4chne> http://octotrike.org/versions.html
[21:57] <ar4chne> it's linked from the tools page
[21:57] <asparagi> i think our next version will be 1.2.0a; can we decide that now, or is that for the feature triage/release planning next time?
[21:58] <ar4chne> where it goes "Demo <Versions> of Trike"
[21:58] <asparagi> oh!
[21:58] <asparagi> that's even where I was looking for it
[21:58] <ar4chne> :)
[21:58] <asparagi> i mean, on that page
[21:58] <asparagi> maybe we should link it in a little better.  not sure where from
[21:59] <Dymaxion> We're planning on adding features and rewriting the xml support to not suck, plus redoing exposure/asset values.  Those mean file format changes, and I don't think there's any point in writing a compatibility layer.
[21:59] <Dymaxion> Therefor, yes; 1.2.0a
[21:59] <asparagi> ok. i'll refer to it that way
[22:00] <ar4chne> maybe on the tools page, just have a second heading that says "About Versioning" and put the data there? 
[22:00] <asparagi> Yeah.  That sounds much more obvious.
[22:00] <Dymaxion> soungs good to me
[22:00] <ar4chne> oki
[22:00] <ar4chne> gimme 3 secs
[22:00] <asparagi> while you're there, can  you cap Trike in the v1.1.2a paragraph?
[22:02] <Dymaxion> done
[22:02] <ar4chne> done!
[22:02] <asparagi> actually could we move the versions.html to have a Trike-tool-specific url?
[22:02] <asparagi> and i have a couple changes for it:
[22:02] <asparagi>    For example, our next planned release will be named 1.1.2a:  methodology version 1, tool version 1.2, approximately alpha quality.
[22:03] <asparagi> should become
[22:03] <asparagi> For example, the version 1.1.2a release implements methodology version 1, in tool version 1.2, of approximately alpha quality.
[22:03] <ar4chne> :(
[22:03] <ar4chne> I just deleted it
[22:04] <asparagi> haha!
[22:04] <asparagi> i have a copy
[22:04] <Dymaxion> So, if you're looking at the UI quirks docs, I should do a "how to use trike" doc, right?
[22:04] <asparagi> since it is on my screen
[22:04] <asparagi> P, yahh
[22:04] <ar4chne> no, I mean the code
[22:04] <ar4chne> not the content
[22:04] <asparagi> oh no
[22:04] <asparagi> oh.
[22:04] <asparagi> crap
[22:04] <ar4chne> we're not sure what you're meaning, aspa
[22:04] <ar4chne> refresh the tools page
[22:04] <Dymaxion> do you not putting the versioning stuff on the tools page?
[22:04] <ar4chne> you don't like it?
[22:04] <asparagi> oh
[22:05] Action: asparagi shuts up & hits refresh
[22:05] <Dymaxion> We could change that title to "About Trike Versioning", if it's not clear.
[22:05] Action: asparagi searches blindly for the mind meld device
[22:05] <Dymaxion> try behind the cat dish
[22:06] <asparagi> you're right! there it is
[22:06] <asparagi> no, it's totally clear, i just misunderstood the plan.  i like it.
[22:06] <asparagi> put Issue Tracker above About Versioning?
[22:07] <asparagi> i hope more ppl want to file bugs than want the nitty-gritty of the versions
[22:07] <ar4chne> ok
[22:07] <ar4chne> 3 secss!
[22:07] Action: Dymaxion grins
[22:07] <asparagi> Change to "A Trike version number has 4 parts:"
[22:08] <asparagi> and then "Version 1.1.0a should have been released to the public at  ShmooCon 2005, but was so buggy it is unlikely to ever see the light of day."
[22:09] <ar4chne> lol :D
[22:09] <asparagi> I try to keep our readers entertained.
[22:09] <asparagi> All 3 of thea.
[22:09] <asparagi> er, them.
[22:09] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[22:11] <asparagi> Can we rephrase the v1.1.2a release to not have the word here be a link?  I don't know why that bugs me, but it does.
[22:11] Action: Dymaxion looks at the IRC logs and reads up on what we're going to say on April 9th, 2006.
[22:11] <asparagi> why are there...
[22:11] <asparagi> whoa
[22:11] <asparagi> i definitely have the mind meld device now
[22:12] <Dymaxion> unfortunately, we didn't say anything too interesting that day -- no sneak peaks into problems we haven't run into yet.
[22:12] Action: asparagi snorts
[22:12] <asparagi> do you remember what day that really was?
[22:13] <asparagi> was it 1/30, probably?
[22:13] <Dymaxion> I'm guessing January 30, from context in the list
[22:13] <Dymaxion> eyah
[22:13] <ar4chne> you can check the bottom
[22:13] <ar4chne> there would be a timestamp for the next day
[22:13] <ar4chne> starting
[22:13] <ar4chne> aspa, what do you mean by:
[22:14] <ar4chne> <asparagi> Can we rephrase the v1.1.2a release to not have the word here be a link?  I don't know why that bugs me, but it does.
[22:15] <asparagi> Oh, like <a href="">Current bugs</a> something something instead of  Current bugs can be seen <a href="">here</a>
[22:16] <ar4chne> hmmm...I like it the way it is
[22:16] <ar4chne> unless I were to bullet them and do like
[22:16] <ar4chne> * bugs
[22:16] <ar4chne> or 
[22:16] <ar4chne> * Known Issues
[22:16] <ar4chne> and then
[22:16] Action: Dymaxion could go either way
[22:16] <ar4chne> * Screenshots
[22:17] <asparagi> ooh, and * Installation Instructions
[22:17] <asparagi> and * User Documentation
[22:17] <ar4chne> altho, i think all those bullets should be on the 1.1.2a page
[22:17] <ar4chne> instead of in the brief discription
[22:17] <asparagi> Oh, that makes sense.
[22:18] <asparagi> Maybe we should just take that out of the brief description
[22:18] <asparagi> Then they could be header thingies just like they are now.
[22:19] <ar4chne> oki
[22:19] <asparagi> I think we should change v1 build 5 Known Issues to:
[22:20] <Dymaxion> "Lots, use something newer."
[22:20] <asparagi> There are many bugs in this version of Trike.  It was an alpha version we are not planning to maintain.
[22:20] <asparagi> Use Paul's version.
[22:20] <ar4chne> does the bug tracking system track versions for us?
[22:20] <ar4chne> like "this issue is in version x.x.xa"
[22:20] <Dymaxion> no, not right now
[22:21] <asparagi> i wish we had one that did
[22:21] <Dymaxion> We may want to put switching bug tracking systems on the table for next week
[22:21] <asparagi> yah
[22:21] <asparagi> i think i am the one who was supposed to look at that
[22:21] <asparagi> i mean, evaluating them
[22:23] <ar4chne> !zope 
[22:23] <ar4chne> please pleaxse pretty pretty plz
[22:23] <asparagi> on the shmoocon 2005 talk page change the slides & demo thing to
[22:24] <asparagi>  If you were at the talk, you recall that  the slides and demo didn't work entirely properly.  Well, they still don't, and they aren't going to.
[22:24] <asparagi> Sorry. 
[22:25] <asparagi> Yes, Zopeless bugs is on my requirements list
[22:25] <ar4chne> ok, refresh
[22:25] <ar4chne> on the tools page
[22:25] <ar4chne> and the 1.1.2a page
[22:27] <asparagi> on tools, the example version number paragraph still needs to be updated to reflect that we released v1
[22:27] <asparagi> er, 1.1.2
[22:27] <asparagi> a
[22:27] <ar4chne> where?
[22:28] <ar4chne> oh, go to 1.2.0
[22:28] <ar4chne> ?
[22:28] <asparagi> just before "Exceptions"
[22:29] <asparagi> "For example, our next planned release...
[22:29] <asparagi> For example, the version 1.1.2a release implements methodology version 1, in tool version 1.2, of approximately alpha quality.
[22:29] <ar4chne> ok, refresh!
[22:30] <asparagi> Sure, that work
[22:30] <asparagi> on 1.1.2a, it's the "here" with an <a href></a> around it that bugs me
[22:31] <ar4chne> what else should I put?
[22:31] <asparagi> <a href>See Trike in action.</a>
[22:31] <asparagi> ?
[22:31] <asparagi> I dunno
[22:31] <ar4chne> hmm...that sounds like we have a flash demo
[22:32] <asparagi> how about 
[22:32] <asparagi> We took some <a href>stills of Trike 1.1.2a</a>
[22:32] <asparagi> that one's better anyway
[22:33] <ar4chne> stills?
[22:33] <asparagi> i just want the link text to
[22:33] <asparagi> ok, that's dorky toa
[22:33] <asparagi> wow, dorky toa, it's like krakatoa
[22:33] Action: ar4chne gets the feeling aspa is trying to avoid document writing
[22:33] <asparagi> say screenshots again?
[22:33] <ar4chne> ;D
[22:34] <asparagi> no, i just want the link text to be descriptive
[22:34] <asparagi> of what you are going to see when you click on it
[22:34] <asparagi> but ok
[22:34] <asparagi> i'll go get to work
[22:34] <ar4chne> it says "see screenshots"
[22:34] <ar4chne> :P
[22:36] Action: asparagi doesn't want to context-switch away from updating the web site until we have fixed all the places it sounds like 1.1.2a isn't really here yet
[22:36] Action: Dymaxion nods
[22:37] <asparagi> e.g. on the 1.1.2a screenshot page, it says "development system" but should maybe say "Trike 1.1.2a" instead
[22:38] <ar4chne> we need to change the "When is the next release of trike coming" question on the faq as well
[22:38] <asparagi> yeah
[22:38] <ar4chne> so...when is the next release of trike coming? :D
[22:38] Action: Dymaxion starts a list for next time
[22:38] <asparagi> maybe for now we should say something like we're still planning it
[22:39] <Dymaxion> that's a good question.  Why don't we get back to you next week.
[22:39] <asparagi> hee hee
[22:39] <ar4chne> :P
[22:39] <Dymaxion> I think that should be the answer. :-)
[22:39] <asparagi> Works for me
[22:39] <asparagi> although i'm not sure we'll know next week either
[22:40] <asparagi> although we might know broad strokes features i suppose
[22:40] <Dymaxion> oh, I didn't mean to specify any *specific* week with that answer...
[22:40] <Dymaxion> just you know, next week.
[22:40] <asparagi> I think in question 9 we should really include a link to the microsoft tool if we are going to use the word purport
[22:41] <asparagi> since it actually is a threat modeling tool
[22:41] <asparagi> i don't want to accidentally dis it
[22:41] <ar4chne> faq updated
[22:42] <ar4chne> nah, I think that question is fine
[22:44] <asparagi> Could we add something about a plan to post a list later, then?
[22:44] <ar4chne> like what?
[22:45] <asparagi> "At some point in the future, we may post a threat modeling tool comparison chart."
[22:45] <asparagi> or something...
[22:45] <Dymaxion> For the individual talks pages, we should note that the language on the pages comes from the conference programs -- it sounds weirdish now.
[22:48] <asparagi> sure..
[22:59] <ar4chne> paul's making fun of my spelling of broshure!
[22:59] Action: Dymaxion grins
[22:59] <asparagi> hee hee
[22:59] <asparagi> sure, bro..
[22:59] <Dymaxion> like I shoudl talk most of the time...
[23:01] <ar4chne> ok, I think I nailed anything
[23:01] <ar4chne> s/anything/everything/
[23:01] <ar4chne> *pant*pant*pant*
[23:01] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[23:01] Action: Dymaxion throws the context switch.
[23:01] <Dymaxion> bzzaaaap
[23:01] <asparagi> you go, ara!
[23:02] <Dymaxion> do we want to talk about docs some now?
[23:02] <ar4chne> I'm sorry I missed so much stuff :/
[23:03] <asparagi> no worries
[23:03] <Dymaxion> not your fault... we were the ones who gave you the list
[23:03] <Dymaxion> I've check something into svn that tries to list all the things we just changed that we'll need to do next release
[23:04] <asparagi> just thought if we were spiffing it up & adding docs, we should do a little site maint too
[23:04] <asparagi> i've been poking at the ui quirks
[23:04] <asparagi> but it is hardly usable
[23:04] <asparagi> it is also 9pm
[23:04] <Dymaxion> ok
[23:05] <Dymaxion> do you want to send something out over email if you have time to get it together before the next meeting?
[23:05] <asparagi> can we all make it next wed?
[23:05] <asparagi> yes, i will
[23:05] Action: Dymaxion will try to work on a basic user's guide.
[23:05] <Dymaxion> I can
[23:05] <asparagi> and you should do the same
[23:05] <ar4chne> I'll work on getting the dmg up before tomorrow morning, too
[23:05] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:06] <ar4chne> altho, I have to be on a plane in 8 hours or so
[23:06] <ar4chne> :D
[23:06] <asparagi> with a little sleep, i hope
[23:06] <Dymaxion> can you send the outline we talked about up above out to the list too, asp, so I don't duplicate anything on it?
[23:06] <asparagi> sure
[23:06] <Dymaxion> cool
[23:07] <asparagi> cool, we all have action items
[23:07] <Dymaxion> yay
[23:07] <asparagi> i'll see y'all next week
[23:07] <ar4chne> haha, now I know you started working at a corp, aspa
[23:07] <Dymaxion> see you next week
[23:07] <Dymaxion> don't work too much
[23:07] <Dymaxion> hehe
[23:07] <ar4chne> ;D I'd never heard the term 'action items' until then
[23:07] <asparagi> you neither
[23:08] <asparagi> yeah, they call them ARs, though
[23:08] <asparagi> i forget what the r is for
[23:08] <Dymaxion> heh
[23:08] <Dymaxion> do pirates get ARrrrrrrrs?
[23:09] <asparagi> wow
[23:09] <asparagi> i hope i remember that next year for talk like a pirate day
[23:09] <ar4chne> haha :D
[23:09] <ar4chne> oki, heading out
[23:09] Action: Dymaxion grins
[23:09] <Dymaxion> tty1
[23:09] <ar4chne> yay, trike release!
[23:09] <asparagi> ok. see y'all later
[23:09] <Dymaxion> up
[23:09] <asparagi> yay!
[23:09] <Dymaxion> yup, even
[00:00] --- Fri Feb 10 2006
