[21:46] <asparagi> sorry, network trouble
[21:48] <asparagi> okay, _now_ i'm really here
[22:27] <Dymaxion> ...and now we're here.
[22:27] <asparagi> yay!
[22:27] <asparagi> i have almost figured out what i was thinking with xsd class factory
[22:28] <asparagi> so, requirements first?
[22:28] <Dymaxion> ieieh    eretheeeeee        eeeeeeezz
[22:28] <Dymaxion> someone is playing with my keyboard. :-)
[22:28] <Dymaxion> yes
[22:28] <asparagi> oh my
[22:29] <asparagi> did someone get that good stiff drink she was talking about? ;)
[22:29] <Dymaxion> no, she had some "tea"
[22:29] <asparagi> oh well :)
[22:29] <asparagi> so, got requirements.txt open?
[22:30] <asparagi> y'all take notes, if that's cool
[22:30] <Dymaxion> er, hang on, getting the font size big enough
[22:32] <Dymaxion> ready
[22:33] <asparagi> ok
[22:33] <asparagi> so, lets just go through each section
[22:33] <asparagi> how about model, down to user roles?
[22:34] <asparagi> (e.g. we haven't talked about load sharing)
[22:34] <asparagi> (but i put it in)
[22:34] <asparagi> we should change it if it isn't right
[22:35] <Dymaxion> hang on, I'm not sure if I've read this before
[22:35] <asparagi> i doubt you have
[22:35] <asparagi> i just wrote it this weekend
[22:35] <asparagi> i was trying to use the mind meld device
[22:35] <asparagi> but now we need to finish the process
[22:35] <asparagi> of mind melding
[22:36] <Dymaxion> ok
[22:37] <Dymaxion> ok, read that part
[22:38] <asparagi> but how does it sound?
[22:38] <asparagi> does it match what y'all were thinking?
[22:38] <Dymaxion> doesn't sound bad; what's this about load sharing?
[22:39] <asparagi> well, if we do load sharing, things get all complicated on the server end
[22:39] <asparagi> hee hee
[22:39] <asparagi> so i thought maybe we could just punt for the first release of v1
[22:40] <asparagi> especially since we personally know all our users
[22:40] <DymAra> yeah; do you think load balancing is something we'll need?
[22:40] <asparagi> they could probably all use one server
[22:40] <asparagi> :)
[22:40] <asparagi> not really
[22:40] <DymAra> ok
[22:40] <DymAra> I'd leaving it out entirely
[22:41] <asparagi> ok.  slash & burn, baby
[22:41] <asparagi> (your end is the note keeping)
[22:41] <DymAra> I'll do edits and check it back in when we're done
[22:41] <asparagi> great
[22:41] <asparagi> ok, are we all good down to user roles in the model section?
[22:42] <DymAra> yes
[22:42] <asparagi> k  so down to SERVER
[22:42] <DymAra> Can a consumer make queries?
[22:42] <asparagi> yes
[22:42] <DymAra> ok, cool; that supports the role stuff we'd talked about
[22:42] <asparagi> oh, do you mean like construct some & save them for later?
[22:42] <DymAra> Why is there a distinction between an owner and an author?
[22:43] <asparagi> Dym, you should show diagrams from last night to ara so she can see the other role things
[22:43] <asparagi> the owner can change privs for the model
[22:43] <DymAra> I didn't mean that, but we may want to think about allowing that some howI think we'll need to dive into the "what can we do to support these use cases stuff"
[22:43] <DymAra> ok
[22:44] <asparagi> in a large group maybe there are some people who are trusted to work on the model but not to say who can see it
[22:44] <DymAra> ok
[22:45] <DymAra> it seems like Owners should automatically be authors; it's a bit silly to not have them be authors, given that they can make themselves authors; why wouldn't we want to do that?
[22:47] <asparagi> hmm, i dunno
[22:47] <asparagi> doesn't really matter to me one way or the other
[22:49] <asparagi> (can you note that query thing as an unresolved issue?  i think we should come back to it after the theory is more settled)
[22:49] <asparagi> so, if you make that change to owners, are we good down to server?
[22:49] <DymAra> Steph's opinion is that Owners should also be Authors; (one should be a superset) -- I think I agree.
[22:50] <DymAra> yes
[22:50] <asparagi> great, change it
[22:50] <DymAra> We're looking at the diagrams right now
[22:50] <asparagi> oh, ok. lemme know when you're ready
[22:50] <DymAra> Steph mentioned that we're showing two things by the lines in the dep diagrams, both strict dependency and data flow
[22:51] <DymAra> i.e., in the simple dep diagram, attacks don't need to depend directly on design because they also depending on things which depend on design
[22:52] <asparagi> mmm, i see
[22:52] <asparagi> can you fix it somehow?
[22:52] <asparagi> i think those links are important
[22:52] <asparagi> maybe they are only data flow?
[22:52] <DymAra> yeah; I think a different link color or something might be in order -- I'll poke at it later
[22:53] <asparagi> i.e. we shouldn't think of it as a dependency at all, maybe
[22:53] <asparagi> cool, sounds good to me.  i am sure you will come up with something great
[22:55] <asparagi> Dymara would be a good name for a character in a fantasy novel
[22:58] <asparagi> (you are going to tell me when you're done w/ diagrams, right?)
[22:58] <DymAra> yeah
[23:00] <DymAra> yeah, I'm going to name my first child dymara, I think
[23:00] <DymAra> test
[23:01] <asparagi> um, so, 
[23:01] <DymAra> woot 
[23:01] <asparagi> i thought neither of you were having children...
[23:01] <DymAra> sorry, :D playing w/ dyms computer
[23:01] <DymAra> we've decided that maybe we'll have one together
[23:01] Action: asparagi laughs
[23:01] <asparagi> wow
[23:01] <asparagi> well, they'd be awfully cute
[23:02] <DymAra> call it dymara triking somethingorotherelse 
[23:02] Action: asparagi laughs so hard it hurts
[23:02] Action: asparagi is still laughing
[23:02] <DymAra> ok, I think we're done with the diagrams -- we may want to rename business rule attacks to requirement attacks
[23:02] <asparagi> sure
[23:02] <asparagi> well, maybe
[23:03] <asparagi> i don't people to think they are attacks on the requirement for 95% uptime
[23:03] <asparagi> business logic attacks?
[23:04] <DymAra> hrm
[23:04] <DymAra> well, if we use requirements the way we've been meaning it, it makes sense, but maybe you're right
[23:04] <asparagi> we could brainstorm a bunch & send ideas to the list?
[23:04] <DymAra> yeah
[23:05] <asparagi> k, so SERVER down to the roles part
[23:09] <DymAraThe2nd> it's bad to kill your emacs buffer when you're in the wrong window.
[23:09] <asparagi> Shouldn't that be Dymara Triking?
[23:09] <DymAraThe2nd> Yes, let's talk about servers
[23:09] <DymAraThe2nd> Well, we are triking right now, so that bit was kind of redundant
[23:10] <asparagi> so, how's it sound down to roles?
[23:10] <DymAraThe2nd> up to users sounds good to me
[23:11] <asparagi> k, user roles part?
[23:13] <DymAraThe2nd> why are we using different names for administrator vs owner; it seems that using the same name might make more sense, as the only difference is scope
[23:14] <asparagi> i guess i was imagining someone trying to administer the server perhaps having trouble with the concept of "server owner" vs. "model owner"
[23:14] <asparagi> so i thought giving them different names was a feature
[23:14] <DymAraThe2nd> the part about not being able to gain read/write access to existing models isn't too clear; it seems like a server admin should be able to do that.
[23:14] <asparagi> but again, i don't have strong feelings either way
[23:15] <asparagi> i think they shouldn't, because then multiple groups who don't trust each other can all use one server
[23:15] <asparagi> as long as they trust the sysadmin for the server, they don't have to trust each other
[23:16] <asparagi> & they don't have to create a bunch of identical accounts for different consultants in different groups, & we don't have to write anything that does groups
[23:17] <DymAraThe2nd> well, they still don't have to trust each other; the server admin could assumably own their models regardless, but as the creators can't own an existing model regardless
[23:18] <asparagi> that didn't parse, try again?
[23:18] <DymAraThe2nd> as long as model authors/owners can own/author multiple models and assignd access to them from the same set of users, we still don't need groups
[23:18] <asparagi> got it, and i agree
[23:19] <DymAraThe2nd> hostile groups can still share a server as long as they trust the admin regardless of whether or not an admin can become an owner on an existing model; they have to trust the admin regardless.
[23:20] <asparagi> they have to trust the host admin, but we don't have to make them trust the Trike server Administrator role
[23:20] <asparagi> each group could have their own Administrator
[23:20] <asparagi> and the other groups wouldn't have to worry
[23:21] <asparagi> the other groups only need to trust the host sysadmin
[23:22] <asparagi> well, okay, they still have to trust other Administrators not to delete their models, but that's a little different
[23:22] <DymAraThe2nd> hrm
[23:23] <DymAraThe2nd> We could allow/force the creator of a model to assign one or more admins to the model, and allow them to recover privileges
[23:23] <DymAraThe2nd> hrm
[23:24] <asparagi> but isn't that the same as just having them be owners
[23:24] <asparagi> ?
[23:24] <DymAraThe2nd> I guess I'm not convinced this is a really important thing for us to support; do you think it is?
[23:24] Action: asparagi shrugs
[23:24] <DymAraThe2nd> hrm
[23:25] <asparagi> i guess if i were designing a pie-in-the-sky system i would want it to work like this, and it doesn't seem any harder to implement
[23:25] <asparagi> in fact really, it's easier.
[23:25] <asparagi> and it goes along with conf & integ being more important than avail
[23:26] <asparagi> that said, i'm not at all set on it
[23:26] <DymAraThe2nd> hrm
[23:26] <asparagi> feel free to change it
[23:26] <DymAraThe2nd> can we table this and talk about it on the phone next time?
[23:26] <asparagi> it is way more important to have a documented picture of what we want than to have this particular thing any particular way
[23:26] <DymAraThe2nd> I think it's a bit too nuanced for irc.
[23:27] <DymAraThe2nd> ok
[23:27] <asparagi> sure, that works too
[23:27] <asparagi> so, down to CLIENT?
[23:28] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:29] <DymAraThe2nd> do we want to spec a keyboard-only ui?
[23:30] Action: asparagi is unsure
[23:30] <asparagi> that seems like it could be useful
[23:30] <DymAraThe2nd> can we please pretty pretty please make trike accessible to blind users?
[23:31] <DymAraThe2nd> pleaaaaaaaasssssseeeee???
[23:31] <asparagi> nope
[23:31] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah, it does
[23:31] Action: DymAraThe2nd grins
[23:31] <DymAraThe2nd> and to think, I'm the half of the DymAra brain collective that's been drinking
[23:31] <asparagi> you just wanted to see what happened when i didn't like a suggestion :)
[23:32] <asparagi> so you could calibrate
[23:32] <asparagi> ;)
[23:32] Action: DymAraThe2nd pouts a little bit and puts his/her three mice back in his/her pocket
[23:32] <asparagi> 3 mice?
[23:32] <asparagi> oh
[23:32] <asparagi> see how they run
[23:32] <asparagi> got it
[23:32] <asparagi> sure, rewrite that puppy so we don't need a pointing device
[23:32] <DymAraThe2nd> three mice might be kind of handy for the drawing bits...
[23:33] <asparagi> god knows how we will pull this off
[23:33] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah, I'm not sure either
[23:33] <asparagi> "now, grip the 3rd mouse with your left foot, and..."
[23:33] <DymAraThe2nd> I don't think it should be a requirement right now; it might need to be an alternate UI entirely, but I think we may want to keep the idea around.
[23:33] <DymAraThe2nd> control-alt-meta-hyper-super-left_foot-Q!
[23:34] <DymAraThe2nd> or perhaps offer free arm grafts to peoples foreheads for advertising trike
[23:34] <asparagi> wow.  that should launch the space shuttle or something
[23:34] <DymAraThe2nd> soon you'll need to be an octopus just to use it.
[23:34] <asparagi> everybody wants prosthetic foreheads on their real heads
[23:34] <DymAraThe2nd> "trike v3: now with more arms"
[23:35] <asparagi> so, is keyboard-only in or out?
[23:35] <DymAraThe2nd> ok, client looks good; I'll add in a noted about revisiting keyboard-only later
[23:35] <asparagi> (for this client)
[23:35] <asparagi> great
[23:35] <asparagi> k. so, protocol
[23:36] <DymAraThe2nd> looks good to me
[23:37] <asparagi> deployment?
[23:37] <asparagi> hard to disagree with, really
[23:37] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:37] <asparagi> file formaz
[23:37] <asparagi> er, t
[23:38] <DymAraThe2nd> sounds good.
[23:38] <asparagi> k, users
[23:38] <DymAraThe2nd> can we specify that users are computer savvy?
[23:38] <DymAraThe2nd> I think I'd like to include that in all my programs.
[23:38] <asparagi> i.e. s/reasonably// ?
[23:39] <DymAraThe2nd> It's more that we want to state it as "we are only intending to support computer savvy users"
[23:39] <asparagi>  Great, ship it.
[23:40] <asparagi> are we ready for workflow?
[23:41] <DymAraThe2nd> The auth bit in user is a bit weird
[23:41] <DymAraThe2nd> are we implying that we'll reauthenticate for users and store their creds?
[23:41] <DymAraThe2nd> because it sort of sounds like that
[23:42] <asparagi> no, i think we're implying that we want to use something with a similar effect to that
[23:42] <asparagi> e.g. same client cert gets you in to multiple servers
[23:43] <asparagi> (can you have one client cert with sigs from multiple CAs?)
[23:43] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah, it's weird, though.
[23:43] <asparagi> do you want to rewrite it, or take it out, or..?
[23:43] <DymAraThe2nd> I'll clarify a bit
[23:44] <DymAraThe2nd> ok, workflow
[23:44] <asparagi> i mean, i feel like there are good reasons to use certs vs. passwords, and i was trying to put something in the requirements that made the certs seem reasonable
[23:44] Action: DymAraThe2nd nods
[23:44] <asparagi> oops, sorry, not to reopen closed topics
[23:44] <asparagi> workflow
[23:44] <DymAraThe2nd> that's ok
[23:46] <asparagi> I guess there may be a bit of a conflict b/w immediate change and atomic transactions.
[23:46] <asparagi> unless we define atomic transactions a little better
[23:46] <DymAraThe2nd> so, multiple users and the bit about user-created data hanging around gets weird
[23:46] <asparagi> why?
[23:47] <DymAraThe2nd> stephs's proposing that that be client functionality
[23:47] <DymAraThe2nd> undo does, too
[23:47] <asparagi> if i create something, and then somebody else thoughtlessly nukes it due to some other model change, i'd like a way to get it back
[23:48] <DymAraThe2nd> ok, yeah
[23:48] <DymAraThe2nd> doing that on the server seems really expensive
[23:48] <asparagi> time, or space, or...?
[23:48] <asparagi> i don't see the expense
[23:49] <DymAraThe2nd> hrm
[23:50] <asparagi> undo is a little interesting, too; let's finish with nuked data first
[23:50] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:50] <asparagi> i guess for one thing, i'm not expecting that much user-created data to be nuked in practice
[23:51] <asparagi> i think by the time we have this done, there will not be that much user-created data to start with
[23:51] <DymAraThe2nd> I think that we were thinking of that as a per-user thing that might happen more often when we were thinking about expense; it sounds like it won't be as much of a problem
[23:51] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:51] <asparagi> especially user-created data hanging off generated data
[23:52] <DymAraThe2nd> ok
[23:52] <asparagi> ok, are we ready for undo?
[23:52] <DymAraThe2nd> yes
[23:52] <asparagi> k.  so it seems like when i hit undo, i want to undo my last change, not yours
[23:52] <DymAraThe2nd> yes
[23:52] <DymAraThe2nd> exactly
[23:53] <asparagi> but if i change, then you change, it gets a little iffy to roll back my change
[23:53] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:53] <asparagi> because what i was going to unchange might be in the salvation army pile
[23:53] <DymAraThe2nd> this is kind of why I like the design history thing; I think we may need something a bit more intelligent than a traditional undo
[23:53] <DymAraThe2nd> yeah
[23:54] <asparagi> so i feel like maybe we could have the server give the client an undo handle or something
[23:54] <asparagi> but the server would actually do the undoing
[23:54] <asparagi> if possible
[23:54] <asparagi> or something
[23:54] <DymAraThe2nd> Steph is tired and heading out
[23:55] <asparagi> maybe we should mark this for further discussion
[23:55] <asparagi> g'night steph!
[23:56] <asparagi> yah, i was thinking i left out something like knowing later who changed what, too
[23:56] Action: Dymaxion nods
[23:56] <Dymaxion> I'll add notes about what we're talking about right now and we can take it up next week
[23:56] <asparagi> that is sort of related to the design history thing
[23:56] <asparagi> k, sounds gooe
[23:56] <asparagi> i am really close on the xsd class factory thing
[23:57] <Dymaxion> yay
[23:57] <asparagi> steph said something re: wishing those diagrams were in svn
[23:57] <Dymaxion> yup, they're going to be; the visio too
[23:57] <asparagi> i know they are generated..
[23:57] <asparagi> ok. awesome
[23:58] <asparagi> yeah, i think i found & nuked some of the vestiges of the old design for xsdcf
[23:58] <Dymaxion> Cool
[23:58] <asparagi> maybe now it will load w/o barfing 
[23:58] <Dymaxion> hehe
[23:58] <asparagi> of course the xml parser is griping about stuff i cut & pasted from the xsd spec
[23:59] <asparagi> anyway, i can let you go
[23:59] <Dymaxion> ok!  See you later
[23:59] <asparagi> night!
[23:59] <Dymaxion> 'night
[00:00] --- Thu Mar 23 2006
