[21:32] <asparagi> hey there!
[21:33] <asparagi> proposed agenda: continue triage for next v1 release
[21:33] <asparagi> then examine result & see how long this is gonna take
[21:56] Action: Dymaxion bounces in.
[21:57] <Dymaxion> ugh, long walk.
[21:57] <Dymaxion> That sounds like a good plan to me.
[21:57] <asparagi> do we have an ara?
[21:58] <asparagi> (did you get her on the telly?+
[21:58] <Dymaxion> yes
[21:59] <asparagi> well, go look @ the on hold issues & see if any look like they shouldn't be
[22:00] <asparagi> i applied the will-the-bug-exist-in-v2 check & these failed
[22:01] Action: Dymaxion looks
[22:02] <Dymaxion> Are we likely to have trees in 2?
[22:03] <asparagi> i don't think so
[22:03] <asparagi> i mean, the rules tree is replaced by ross method
[22:03] <asparagi> & the attack trees didn't sound like trees anymore last we talked
[22:03] Action: Dymaxion nods
[22:04] <asparagi> there might be graphs, but i don't think the display method will be tree-like
[22:04] <Dymaxion> those all sound good to me.
[22:04] <asparagi> (i was thinking of tamara's stuff)
[22:04] <asparagi> so is ara on her way, then?
[22:04] <Dymaxion> I SMSd her to remind her...
[22:04] <asparagi> or should we call her?
[22:05] <asparagi> hmm
[22:05] <asparagi> i think i'll call her
[22:07] <asparagi> voicemail
[22:07] <asparagi> i hope she's ok...
[22:07] <Dymaxion> hrm
[22:07] <Dymaxion> yeah
[22:07] <asparagi> how about page 1 of the open or taken issues?
[22:08] <asparagi> http://bugs.octotrike.org/bugs/bugs/ListIssues/sortorder-urgency?Filterlogic=block&saved_filter=&f-statuses=on+hold&f-statuses=rejected&f-statuses=completed&f-fromname=&f-email=&filteroptions=1&ListIssues%3Amethod=Apply+filter+settings&page=ListIssues
[22:08] <ar4chne> eek, sorry
[22:08] <asparagi> yay! there you are
[22:08] <ar4chne> sorry sorry sorry
[22:08] <Dymaxion> yay!
[22:08] <ar4chne> fell asleep
[22:08] <Dymaxion> no, no problem
[22:08] Action: Dymaxion didn't leave work early enough again.
[22:09] <asparagi> just so you didn't get mugged on your way home or something, i'm happy
[22:09] <ar4chne> oh, man...yesterday I was walking home and there were like 5 cop cars in the street
[22:09] <ar4chne> and this large black woman yelling at this very bored looking cop
[22:09] <asparagi> mugged by cops?
[22:09] <ar4chne> and as I'm passing her by I look down and noticed I was stepping through blood splatter :/
[22:09] <asparagi> ewww!
[22:09] <asparagi> oh my
[22:10] <ar4chne> I dunno what happened, but it was weird
[22:10] <asparagi> see, your walk home is frequently _way_ too exciting
[22:10] <Dymaxion> eww
[22:10] <Dymaxion> where was this?
[22:10] <ar4chne> hmmm...pine and bellvue ish?
[22:11] <asparagi> so, ara, do you see any bugs in the on hold issues which you think we should stick back into the next release of v1?
[22:11] <asparagi> wow, right by dym's house
[22:11] <asparagi> well, not right by
[22:11] <ar4chne> nah, 4 or 5 blocks away
[22:11] <ar4chne> haha, 1 block in seattle makes a big difference ^^
[22:11] Action: Dymaxion grins and nods
[22:11] <ar4chne> oh, I have something to add to the agenda!
[22:11] <asparagi> what is it?
[22:11] <ar4chne> server-space
[22:11] <asparagi> oh. yes indeed
[22:12] <Dymaxion> mmm, server space.
[22:12] <ar4chne> so I found out about this hosting provider that the metasploit guys are using
[22:12] <ar4chne> called domaingurus
[22:12] <ar4chne> or sthing
[22:12] <asparagi> cheap & good?
[22:12] <ar4chne> and it's a dedicated box with good specs and 10mbit (I think) unmetered access
[22:12] <ar4chne> for $50 / mo
[22:13] <Dymaxion> cool
[22:13] <ar4chne> w/ a $99 setup fee
[22:13] <asparagi> we admin, or they admin?
[22:13] <ar4chne> so I'm thinking I'm  going to get one
[22:13] <ar4chne> and then set up a bunch of xen instances on it
[22:13] <ar4chne> with some extra ips
[22:13] <ar4chne> and then I could put octotrike's stuff on one seciton
[22:13] <ar4chne> section*
[22:13] <ar4chne> and have all the other domains I'm hosting be seperate too
[22:13] <asparagi> that sounds pretty good
[22:14] <Dymaxion> Sounds great, yeah
[22:14] <ar4chne> yeah, I'm looking forward to it...I can logically seperate my mail & chat servers from teh web servers
[22:14] <ar4chne> and each domain can then have their own ssl certs
[22:14] <ar4chne> without having to run on weird ports
[22:15] <asparagi> yum, yum.
[22:15] <Dymaxion> yay
[22:15] <ar4chne> so I was thinking that if it were seperated, then you guys could have shells
[22:16] <ar4chne> because I wouldn't worry so much about you poking around things that weren't trike-related
[22:16] Action: Dymaxion nods
[22:16] <Dymaxion> that would be really convenient
[22:16] <asparagi> if i had a way to put content up on the web site that is all i need
[22:16] <asparagi> well, okay, it wouldn't be bad to do the squeaksource thing & be able to kill it if needed
[22:17] <ar4chne> hmmm..putting content on the site wouldn't be difficult with our current configuration
[22:17] <asparagi> i don't know how stable it is
[22:17] <ar4chne> yeah
[22:17] <ar4chne> that's the other thing
[22:17] <ar4chne> I don't want squeaksource up on my server :P
[22:17] <asparagi> oh, ok
[22:17] <ar4chne> unless it were logically seperated
[22:17] <asparagi> that's cool
[22:17] <ar4chne> I think the source code repository bits should be sep'd from the web server bits
[22:17] <asparagi> we can stick it at my house if we are willing to port knock before we get in
[22:18] <asparagi> yes, i agree
[22:18] <Dymaxion> a xen partition is enough seperation though, right?
[22:18] <ar4chne> yeah, that would be fine
[22:18] <ar4chne> would you guys be willing to pitch in a little for extra ips?
[22:18] <asparagi> absoloodle
[22:18] <Dymaxion> of course
[22:18] <ar4chne> http://domaingurus.com/Dedicated-Servers.php
[22:19] <ar4chne> that's what I'm looking at
[22:19] <ar4chne> oh, nvm...i[s are only an extra $1 / mo
[22:19] <asparagi> boy, my net is so fast that when i click on a link i get no opportunity to change my mind before it is right there in front of me
[22:19] <ar4chne> :) you can just buy lunch sometime
[22:19] <Dymaxion> the base linux box?
[22:20] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[22:20] <Dymaxion> Works for me. :-)
[22:20] <asparagi> okay!  i would be thrilled, as always, to buy you lunch
[22:21] <asparagi> i love how the windows box is more expensive
[22:21] <asparagi> hee hee
[22:21] <Dymaxion> gotta pay for that license some how. :-)
[22:22] <asparagi> the thing i really like about the virtual solution is that if we move servers, we can just gzip it and take it with, no setup
[22:22] <ar4chne> yeah ^^
[22:23] <asparagi> zat it on server space?
[22:23] <ar4chne> i think so
[22:24] <asparagi> k..  here's your link to bugs i want to postpone past the next v1 release:
[22:24] <asparagi> http://bugs.octotrike.org/bugs/?Filterlogic=show&saved_filter=126&f-statuses=on+hold&f-fromname=&f-email=&filteroptions=1&ListIssues%3Amethod=Apply+filter+settings&page=ListIssues
[22:24] <asparagi> paul looked at 'em already; ara, do you see any you really want fixed in the next v1?
[22:25] <ar4chne> 4looking
[22:29] <ar4chne> hmm...the one that says there's no way to bulk expand / contract the trees is innacurate, isn't' it?
[22:29] <ar4chne> I thought the plusses did that
[22:30] <asparagi> i think it's shift-click or something
[22:30] <Dymaxion> this is the equivalent of hitting '*' in a windows explorer view
[22:30] <Dymaxion> you can right click to expand the tree, but it works oddly; I think we wanted better docs or something.
[22:30] <asparagi> yes, they do.  but nobody knows it.  we were talking about adding balloon help, i think
[22:30] <ar4chne> ah, that doesn't seem very difficult
[22:30] <asparagi> it does work oddly
[22:31] <asparagi> want to untriage it?
[22:31] <ar4chne> hmmm...I think the editing one is kinda important with the focus change
[22:31] <ar4chne> that's going to persist into v2, right?
[22:31] <asparagi> no, no trees in v2
[22:31] <asparagi> we don't think
[22:31] <ar4chne> ah, ok
[22:32] <ar4chne> yeah, nothing's really popping out at me, then
[22:32] <asparagi> even the bulk expansion?
[22:32] <ar4chne> hmmm...I'd throw balloon help at it
[22:33] <ar4chne> but wouldnt' change the functionality if they're going to disappear
[22:33] <asparagi> ok.  re-opened on the balloon help plan
[22:34] <asparagi> now we should all go to http://bugs.octotrike.org/bugs/bugs/ListIssues/sortorder-urgency?Filterlogic=block&saved_filter=&f-statuses=on+hold&f-statuses=rejected&f-statuses=completed&f-fromname=&f-email=&filteroptions=1&ListIssues%3Amethod=Apply+filter+settings&page=ListIssues
[22:34] Action: asparagi looks forward to a bug tracking system with shorter URLs
[22:34] Action: ar4chne looks forward to aspa finding one :D
[22:35] Action: asparagi blushes
[22:35] <ar4chne> ;P
[22:35] <ar4chne> just teasing
[22:35] <asparagi> i forgot that was my do
[22:35] <ar4chne> hmmm...is that known issues?
[22:35] <ar4chne> as in open?
[22:35] <asparagi> yes.  open or "taken", i.e. assigned
[22:36] <asparagi> it doesn't include everything from our feature list as of last week
[22:36] <ar4chne> ok
[22:36] <asparagi> but i think we were down to class comments or so last time
[22:36] <asparagi> after we finish triaging these, i was figuring one of us could add the remaining stuff from our feature list & then we'll have it all in one place
[22:37] <ar4chne> yeah, sounds good
[22:38] <asparagi> so, i'm in favor of class comments for v1.  it will make people who want to interoperate have an easier time of it and it will be less tacky.
[22:38] <asparagi> (dym, you still here?)
[22:38] <Dymaxion> yup
[22:39] <Dymaxion> sorry
[22:39] <Dymaxion> I guess I'm willing to go with that, but it seems like a lot of time...
[22:39] <ar4chne> can we mark the bugs as v1 or v2?
[22:39] <asparagi> god, i wish
[22:39] <asparagi> lemme see here
[22:39] <Dymaxion> I'd certainly say that any code that will be transitioning to v2 should get commented.
[22:40] <asparagi> we could create v1 and v2 accounts and assign them to each
[22:41] <asparagi> it's a bit hackish, but..
[22:41] <Dymaxion> good for now
[22:41] <ar4chne> that works
[22:41] <ar4chne> or I could be v1
[22:41] <ar4chne> and you guys could be v2
[22:41] <ar4chne> so thqat we don't have to add accts
[22:43] <asparagi> while you were suggesting that, i added the accts
[22:43] <asparagi> so it's too late
[22:44] <asparagi> :+
[22:44] <asparagi> er, :+
[22:44] <asparagi> er>
[22:44] <ar4chne> heeehee :D
[22:44] <asparagi> :)
[22:44] <ar4chne> no worries ^^
[22:44] <asparagi> + and ) are right next to each other on my keyboard
[22:44] <asparagi> like x and lf
[22:44] <asparagi> and every other character :)
[22:45] <ar4chne> :P
[22:46] <asparagi> ok, let's just do class comments for classes that translate to v2
[22:46] <ar4chne> ok
[22:46] <ar4chne> who determines which classes those are?
[22:47] <asparagi> us
[22:47] <asparagi> :)
[22:47] <ar4chne> !me
[22:47] <asparagi> actually my first guess would be practically none
[22:47] <ar4chne> I wouldn't know
[22:48] <asparagi> well, we don't have a plan for v2 yet, so i don't know either
[22:48] <asparagi> but actually, it looks like not much of the existing class structure will be useful
[22:50] <asparagi> hmm, there's a problem with the v1 vs. v2 thing
[22:50] <asparagi> there doesn't seem to be an interface for assigning bugs,only "taking" them
[22:50] <asparagi> and the password i just set doesn't work
[22:51] <Dymaxion> huh
[22:51] <asparagi> i think we should contine with "on hold" meaning "not v1" and i will look at bug tracking systems this week
[22:51] <asparagi> and i guess i'm willing to put class comments on hold
[22:52] Action: Dymaxion nods
[22:52] <asparagi> so, tab dragging to re-order models
[22:53] <asparagi> i think we are not going to go straight to focus+context for v2, so i think we should fix this in v1
[22:53] Action: Dymaxion agrees
[22:55] <asparagi> so that means the bounds thing should be in v1 as well
[22:55] <Dymaxion> yup
[22:56] <Dymaxion> I think we're going to have to solve that either way, really
[22:56] <asparagi> hmm, good point
[22:56] <asparagi> oh!
[22:57] <asparagi> i think i just figured out how to solve it
[22:58] <asparagi> so, alphabetize open threat models by name
[22:58] <asparagi> not really needed, exactly, but could be handy
[22:58] <asparagi> would still apply in v1
[22:58] <asparagi> er, v2
[22:59] Action: asparagi feels like this is going really slowly
[22:59] <asparagi> is this how y'all want to do triage?
[22:59] <Dymaxion> sorry
[22:59] <Dymaxion> I keep getting distracted by stuff here
[22:59] <Dymaxion> (alex just made me come get dinner. :-)  )
[22:59] <ar4chne> it's not that slow...I just ordered our new server :D
[23:00] <asparagi> ahh :)
[23:00] <asparagi> oh!
[23:00] <asparagi> awesome
[23:00] <ar4chne> :)
[23:00] <Dymaxion> alphabetization would be nice to have for both, and would apply...  dunno how much it really matters, though.
[23:00] <Dymaxion> I'd rather just have them show up in creation/opening order and allow dragging, I think.
[23:00] <asparagi> ara?
[23:01] Action: asparagi is about to put it on hold
[23:01] <ar4chne> hmmm...yeah, I think just dragging is fine
[23:01] <asparagi> (it being alphabetizing tms)
[23:01] <asparagi> awesome.
[23:02] <asparagi> actually i guess that's a reject, not on hold
[23:02] <asparagi> notes section for model overall
[23:02] <Dymaxion> I want this
[23:03] <ar4chne> ok, server ordered
[23:03] <ar4chne> :D
[23:03] <asparagi> i feel like there is a huge philosophical can of worms there.
[23:03] <asparagi> but ok.
[23:03] <asparagi> yay, server!
[23:04] Action: asparagi does the server dance
[23:04] <ar4chne> hehe ^^
[23:04] <Dymaxion> yeah, there definitely are a bunch of issues, and I think we should revisit it later, but it's something that I think will be very useful in the shorter term.
[23:04] <Dymaxion> Yay server!
[23:05] <ar4chne> hmmm..I think we need an in person hash out day
[23:05] <ar4chne> it seems we keep running into these sticking points
[23:05] <ar4chne> that sap up a lot of time, and nothing is really getting resolved
[23:05] Action: Dymaxion nods
[23:05] <asparagi> negative value assets: this will automagically vanish in v2, since the risk model won't directly put values on assets.  is it bad enough to include a fix in the last v1 release?
[23:06] <asparagi> yah, an in-person hash-out might be good
[23:06] <Dymaxion> I don't care about it for v1
[23:06] <asparagi> but if we can just finish triage for v1 tonight i would be really happy
[23:07] <asparagi> ara, do you care about negative asset values?
[23:08] Action: asparagi is going to put it on hold
[23:08] <ar4chne> no, I don't care
[23:08] <ar4chne> sorry, trying to find food
[23:09] <ar4chne> I dunno wassup, but I've been starving like every 3 hours lately
[23:09] <asparagi> ahh :) good luck
[23:09] <asparagi> cut/copy/paste rules & attacks
[23:10] <Dymaxion> goes away?
[23:10] <asparagi> if i were ever going to do another attack tree, i would care
[23:10] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:10] <Dymaxion> didn't we already look at this when we were talking about undo, etc?
[23:10] <asparagi> it does go away, but the general clipboard/cut & paste management system could be portable
[23:10] <asparagi> i can't remember, sorry.
[23:11] Action: Dymaxion nods
[23:11] Action: Dymaxion hunts
[23:11] <asparagi> last time i think everybody assumed someone else was updating the bugs
[23:11] <asparagi> so we didn't get it synced up
[23:12] <asparagi> i think right now i'm in favor of a clipboard system
[23:12] <ar4chne> yeah, it's useful
[23:12] Action: Dymaxion eyes the irc logs
[23:12] <ar4chne> just in general
[23:12] <Dymaxion> sounds good
[23:12] <ar4chne> squeak doesn't have anything?
[23:13] <asparagi> i think v2 will be useless without it, so we may as well get a little longer burn-in time
[23:13] <asparagi> i have no idea
[23:13] <asparagi> i haven't looked yet
[23:13] <Dymaxion> we need something that integrates into our model and update event system, anyway
[23:13] <Dymaxion> so there's going to be some code, no matter what.
[23:16] <asparagi> k.  spurious NOT in role rules
[23:16] <ar4chne> yeah, no worries
[23:16] <asparagi> i think this problem, unfortunately, is a necessary side effect of the roles-are-not-mutually-exclusive thing
[23:16] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:16] <Dymaxion> let's keep ignoring it.
[23:16] <asparagi> and in my last project, in fact roles were not mutually exclusive.  so i vote reject
[23:16] <Dymaxion> that works, too.
[23:16] <asparagi> that way we don't have to keep triaging it over & over :)
[23:16] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[23:16] <asparagi> clicking outside any text box should accept changes
[23:16] <ar4chne> hehe, fine by me
[23:17] <asparagi> i vote v1
[23:17] <ar4chne> I think that one's important
[23:17] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:17] <Dymaxion> it's bloody annoying, too.
[23:17] <asparagi> tabs beyond window width
[23:17] <asparagi> i vote v1: it'll still be present in v2
[23:17] <Dymaxion> yup
[23:17] <asparagi> same for automatically scroll large panes
[23:18] <ar4chne> sounds good
[23:18] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:18] <asparagi> (i'm using the algorithm that one v1 vote is enough, but everyone must reject/on hold, in case that isn't clear)
[23:19] <asparagi> k.  visible indication of editable text
[23:19] <Dymaxion> ok
[23:19] <Dymaxion> v1
[23:19] <asparagi> v1, i think
[23:19] <asparagi> balloon help for threat model tabs
[23:19] <asparagi> i could go either way
[23:19] <Dymaxion> v1; we may have to change the details, but we might as well get in the habit of doing it now.
[23:20] <asparagi> k.  it may require notebook changes, too
[23:20] <asparagi> sync tab & page names?
[23:20] <asparagi> i think this is essential for v1
[23:20] <Dymaxion> hang on, reading bug
[23:21] <Dymaxion> huh, ok
[23:21] <Dymaxion> I hadn't run into that; is this a "changing things with code" issue?
[23:21] <asparagi> well, right now there is no UI to change the name of a threat model
[23:21] <asparagi> i think. 
[23:22] <Dymaxion> yeah, there isn't
[23:22] <asparagi> currently this bug is half-fixed.  now if you programmatically change the model name, the tab changes
[23:22] <asparagi> you should be able to click on the tab, edit the name, and have it stick
[23:23] Action: Dymaxion nods
[23:23] <asparagi> i could turn on click to edit the tab name easily, but i turned it off because it only changes the tab, not the model, which seems bad
[23:24] <ar4chne> that doesn't sound too bad
[23:24] Action: Dymaxion nods
[23:25] <asparagi> i see paul wanted the notes field so much we have 2 open bugs on that. :)
[23:25] <asparagi> i'm going to reject one.
[23:25] Action: Dymaxion whistles innocently.
[23:25] <Dymaxion> Sounds good.
[23:26] <asparagi> ok.  'create' &c called verbs consistently in code & xml
[23:26] <asparagi> i don't care
[23:27] <Dymaxion> I'm inclined to leave it alone... it's a lot of work for consistency in code we're not carrying on.
[23:27] <ar4chne> I don't understand that one
[23:27] <asparagi> there are instance variables named "action", for example
[23:28] <asparagi> when we finally agreed on xml, we called those same pieces of data (crud, basically) verbs
[23:28] <asparagi> so the idea was, make the code use the same names as the xml, so interoperation folks, and us for that matter, wouldn't get confused.
[23:29] <asparagi> plus the existing names are really confusing
[23:29] <asparagi> you see lines of code including phrases like "threat action action"
[23:29] <asparagi> which is weird.  "threat action verb" seems less like a typo
[23:30] <asparagi> ara, we have a vote for on hold and an abstention.  you are the swing vote...
[23:32] <ar4chne> sorry, 1 s
[23:32] Action: ar4chne has no food :(
[23:32] <Dymaxion> aww
[23:32] <asparagi> none in your whole apartmentD
[23:32] <asparagi> ?  we could send you pizza?
[23:33] <ar4chne> I might order one
[23:33] <ar4chne> hmmm...I'd say leave for v1
[23:33] <ar4chne> but as we code for v2, we should match them
[23:33] <asparagi> k..  now order food before you come back!
[23:33] Action: ar4chne grumbles
[23:33] <ar4chne> I wish more stuff were deliverable
[23:34] <ar4chne> I don't really feel like pizza
[23:34] <Dymaxion> yeah; that specific issue isn't going to be in v2, because actions won't be, but if anything like it comes up, we should definitely do it right from the start.
[23:34] <asparagi> teapot delivers
[23:34] <Dymaxion> ooooh
[23:34] <Dymaxion> they do?
[23:34] <asparagi> they're vegan, i think
[23:34] Action: Dymaxion shouldn't know that.
[23:34] <ar4chne> ooooh, no way :D :D
[23:34] <asparagi> i think so.  i think i've had it delivered at danger house before
[23:34] <ar4chne> teapot rocks
[23:34] <asparagi> several times, in fact
[23:34] <Dymaxion> cool
[23:34] <ar4chne> mmmmmm
[23:34] <ar4chne> oh, man
[23:35] <ar4chne> I don't think I should know this
[23:35] <asparagi> order quick tho, i think they might close @ 10
[23:35] <ar4chne> <3
[23:35] Action: Dymaxion slips out real quick to run over to steph's.
[23:35] <asparagi> no, you should, you really should go order some right now :)
[23:35] Action: asparagi laughs
[23:36] <ar4chne> no delivery :(
[23:36] <ar4chne> haha, she laughed at me
[23:36] <asparagi> noo!
[23:36] <asparagi> oh no
[23:36] <Dymaxion> bah!
[23:37] <asparagi> i could swear there was a guy with big boxes of chinese at my door
[23:37] <asparagi> sorry to get your hopes up.  :(
[23:37] <ar4chne> :) no worries
[23:37] <ar4chne> ok, what's next
[23:38] Action: ar4chne goes and microwaves a gluten free waffle
[23:38] <ar4chne> *sigh*
[23:40] <asparagi> :(
[23:40] Action: asparagi was looking for other places
[23:40] <asparagi> need more space around UI strings
[23:41] <asparagi> i vote on hold, but fix the next issue in v1
[23:41] <asparagi> that should solve the same problem
[23:41] <Dymaxion> not really
[23:41] <asparagi> no?
[23:41] <Dymaxion> the spacing issue is one of space proportional to the text size
[23:41] <asparagi> yes
[23:42] <Dymaxion> fixing the next issue could include a fix to the current one, but doesn't have to.
[23:42] <asparagi> so making the text resizable, which it isn't now, will fix that
[23:42] <asparagi> i don't see how you could make the text resizable without addressing issues like that
[23:42] <Dymaxion> Basically, if we make the text resizable, we need to make the padding on the text adjustable.
[23:42] <Dymaxion> yeah
[23:43] <Dymaxion> so, once we make the padding proportional, then we can figure out what the proportion should be.
[23:43] <Dymaxion> Different bug.
[23:44] <asparagi> i mean, that's basically what got us to the current state: changing to caps changed the size of the text when we have no plan for changing the size of the text
[23:44] <ar4chne> I agree w/ aspa
[23:44] <ar4chne> I think they can be rolled
[23:44] <asparagi> i can leave them both open if you want, but i think it's the same fix
[23:44] <Dymaxion> yes
[23:45] <asparagi> so can i close need more space with a reference to change text size easily?
[23:45] <Dymaxion> yes, that works
[23:45] <asparagi> k
[23:46] <asparagi> ah, then we get to display preferences sections & menu
[23:47] <asparagi> the title on that one is difficult to grok
[23:47] <Dymaxion> especially since the bug has been half-fixed
[23:48] <asparagi> yes :)
[23:48] <asparagi> if i half-fix 2 bugs, can i close one? ;)
[23:49] <Dymaxion> yes, but only if you do so in a nondeterministic fashion, so it's always the other bug which is closed when you look at one of them.
[23:49] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[23:49] <asparagi> i guess i think the other half-fix should go into v1
[23:49] <asparagi> i think i'm going to change its title
[23:49] <asparagi> no, no i'm not
[23:49] <asparagi> there's no ui
[23:50] <Dymaxion> heh
[23:51] <Dymaxion> so, the USB stick that's been my portable dev environment and password safe, among other things, died today for real.
[23:51] <Dymaxion> I didn't lose any data, but its replacement is still not here.
[23:52] <Dymaxion> Fortunately, I got a free 512MB stick in the mail today, which came with my laptop. :-)
[23:52] <Dymaxion> (and then had to go toss 2/3 of the images I have sitting around, so it would fit, but)
[23:54] <asparagi> just in time USB sticks
[23:54] <Dymaxion> yup
[23:55] Action: Dymaxion got the people e's getting the new one from to waive shipping and send it next day for being late. :-)
[23:56] <asparagi> ara fell off the net
[23:56] <Dymaxion> doh!
[23:57] <asparagi> so we should finish triage & send a report to the list
[23:57] <Dymaxion> ok
[23:57] <Dymaxion> vertical text in grid views.
[23:58] <Dymaxion> No more grid views, but we'll still have vertical text.  Is this still going to be a problem?
[23:58] <asparagi> yes
[23:58] <asparagi> no idea how to fix
[23:58] <Dymaxion> blah
[23:58] <Dymaxion> well, it stays, then
[23:58] <asparagi> it's sort of like my stab at fixing balloon help
[23:58] Action: Dymaxion nods.
[23:59] <asparagi> i was going to suggest that we punt & see if a Squeak person fixes it
[23:59] <asparagi> oh, or we could try a non-transparent background
[23:59] <Dymaxion> should we perhaps poke some squeak people about it soonish, and see if they fix it by our next release?
[00:00] --- Wed Mar  8 2006
[00:00] Action: asparagi shrugs
[00:00] <asparagi> let's try the non-transparent background, and then poke squeak people
[00:00] <Dymaxion> seems like it might make it more likely to get fixed.
[00:00] <Dymaxion> sounds good.
[00:00] <asparagi> i think it's an andreas problem, is why i hesitate
[00:00] <Dymaxion> ah, wheeeee.
[00:00] Action: Dymaxion grins.
[00:01] <asparagi> vertical tabs: v1?
[00:01] <Dymaxion> yeah
[00:02] <Dymaxion> ditto for flapper tabs
[00:02] <asparagi> and button list across top
[00:03] <asparagi> actually this seems like a dupe of vertical tabs
[00:03] <Dymaxion> they can certainly be combined
[00:03] <asparagi> ok, doing that
[00:04] <asparagi> weird order for new clause types: punt?
[00:04] <Dymaxion> hrm.
[00:05] <Dymaxion> depends if we're going to have menus in v2.
[00:05] <asparagi> it's a very v1-specific menu
[00:05] <Dymaxion> if so, we should fix it, even if we don't implement the fix everywhere in v1.
[00:06] <Dymaxion> that one is, yes, but aren't all menus in alphabetical order right now?
[00:06] <asparagi> the problem isn't the menu, which preserves order fine, it's with the code that builds it.
[00:06] <Dymaxion> ah, ok.
[00:06] <Dymaxion> is the code that builds the menu only screwed up in this case?
[00:07] <Dymaxion> (ie, is there anything intermediate to fix, or is the issue only located in dead code?)
[00:07] <asparagi> yes
[00:07] <asparagi> only in dead code
[00:07] <Dymaxion> ok, never mind.
[00:07] <asparagi> e.g. "Add sibling rule, Remove selected rule, Change Actor to..."
[00:07] Action: Dymaxion nods.
[00:07] <asparagi> not in alphabetical order
[00:07] <Dymaxion> right
[00:08] <Dymaxion> text being edited should have a more obvious highlight.  v1?
[00:08] <asparagi> sure
[00:08] <asparagi> different cursors: v1?
[00:08] <Dymaxion> is the next one a dupe?
[00:09] <asparagi> no
[00:09] <Dymaxion> if not, then yes, v1.
[00:09] <asparagi> oh
[00:09] <asparagi> of a way earlier bug?
[00:09] <Dymaxion> yeah
[00:09] <Dymaxion> indicate editable strings.
[00:09] <asparagi> yes.
[00:10] <asparagi> i'll close editable strings -- different cursors is more general
[00:10] Action: Dymaxion nods.
[00:10] <Dymaxion> highlight colors are definitely a v1
[00:10] <Dymaxion> and right click menu on notebook titlebars is a dupe.
[00:11] <asparagi> yeah, i'll close badly named one
[00:12] <Dymaxion> ...and ballon help is a v1.
[00:12] <asparagi> and we're done
[00:12] <Dymaxion> Which puts us at 28 old issues.
[00:12] <asparagi> awesome
[00:12] <asparagi> plus some stuff from the feature list you emailed out
[00:13] <asparagi> some of those are old issues, too
[00:13] <Dymaxion> yeah, checking them now.
[00:14] <asparagi> i am headed to bed.  i would be happy to enter the issues from your mail next tuesday, or you can feel free to put them in before then
[00:14] <asparagi> and we are on for v2 for tomorrow, right?
[00:14] <Dymaxion> I'll try to get them in tonight
[00:14] <Dymaxion> yup
[00:14] <Dymaxion> :-)
[00:14] <asparagi> bless you. :)
[00:15] <asparagi> that's awesome. next tues, then, we can plot our approach
[00:16] <asparagi> good night!
[00:16] <Dymaxion> 'night
